[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: We've established ourselves as a
socket IO but I wanna do one other thing,
because having a socket connection
isn't interesting if we're not doing
anything with it.
So, what I'm going to leave you a couple
of minutes to try yourself is, I want you,
and there's some hints if you wanted to
look at the code, but what I want you to
do is set yourself up an interval,
calling set interval like I show here.
Set yourself up an interval on your server
that sends an event out to
the client every second.
And the event that it sends is it's
gonna send out a message, okay?
So the way that we would do that inside of
our connection handler, we can say, set.
Let's save our interval so
that we can kill it later, setInterval.
SetInterval is a lot like set timeout,
except it keeps going every second.
When we disconnect,
we wanna clear that interval.
So intv, clear that interval.
But every second what we wanna do is say,
socket.emit.
And it doesn't really matter what
you call the event name, but
I'm gonna call the event name Hello.
And I'm gonna send out a random number.
>> Kyle: So now your task is,
how would you listen for
that event on the client and
print it out to the DOM page?
So notice,
there's nothing being printed anymore.
You might wanna put yourself a paragraph
tag with an [COUGH] ID [COUGH] of hello.
>> Kyle: And I want you to wire yourself
up a listener here that listens for
that event being sent out, and
every time it gets that number,
it updates it in the paragraph tag.
>> Kyle: So I'll give you about two
minutes to try your hand at that.
>> Kyle: Here's how I would do it.
[COUGH] We need to listen for
that hello event.
So we're gonna say socket.on, listen for
the hello event, call a function.
That function is going to receive
our random number as its data.
Then I can do document.getElementById.
And I'm only doing that because
I don't have jQuery in here yet.
But we'll import jQuery pretty soon.
So I'm gonna do that
paragraph tag that I added.
And I'm gonna set its
innerText to be Hello World
plus the number that you just passed me.
>> Kyle: So everybody see how I did that?
>> Kyle: So now I'm gonna
restart my server, 8.server.js.
>> Kyle: Oops.
>> Speaker 2: InnerText is [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle: That's right,
I meant innerHTML,
cuz innerText isn't even cross browser.
>> Kyle: Thank you.
Don't need to restart the server,
just refresh the page.
And there we get each second
it updates our paragraph time.
>> Kyle: Are you guys seeing
something roughly like that?
>> Kyle: Now you're
writing web socket code.
You started out the day never having
written any node code at all and
now you're writing web socket code.
That should be pretty cool.
But it's still kind of trivial stuff
because we're still only having one way
communication.
This is the server pushing us messages.
Wouldn't it be interesting if
we could set ourselves up so
that we could do two way communications?
And not only two way communications, but
how about communications between
multiple connected clients?
So that's where we're headed next.
>> Kyle: I'm gonna stop my server for
the moment.
And you'll notice when I stop my server,
it immediately starts
complaining here in the browser.